Project Description:

CyRent is a car rental application designed specifically for more efficient car rentals for Iowa State University Students. CyRent is a way simpler and would be much more cost effective for the students who are enrolled in the university compared to that of any other car rental company. It comes with a specific rewards program, different schemes on distances, and varieties of cars types depending on the student’s need. One of the most significant advantages of this car rental app would be that the more student use it, the more efficient it would get for them, and there’s reasonable pricing for the car which students could find way cheaper than any other car rental business. 
Once the renter receives the confirmation, the renter can go to the car lot and pick up the car by just writing the confirmation number generated by the UUID generator. There are several main components to CyRent. The people want to rent the vehicles (renters), the hours that a person rents the car for, the type of vehicle that a renter can use, and a payment that the renter gives for renting the car.

 Classes and Methods:
	Classes: 
Renter - Holds information about the renter. Information includes: the renters first name, last name, and user name 
Payment - Main method, Holds information that comes from the ride and calculates the payment amount.
Cars - holds the type of car being used and the cost of the car per day
App- Displays information for the renters about available vehicles and lets them make a reservation and generates a confirmation number. Also lets renters choose how long they need the car for. Also asks the renter for the number of hours the renter wants the car, with a limit of 8 hours. After 8 hours, there’s a fine of 10% of the car type, each extended hour. 
Generates a specific UUID number for each renter, and calculates the total pricing for the renter. 
	Car Database- Database for the Renter details. 

Methods: 
Renter:
getName - stores the name of the renter (First Name + Last Name)
getUserName  - stores the username of the renter

Payment(Main Method): Runs the CyRent app.  

Cars:
getCarType - Type of the car rented(SUV, Hatchback, Sedan, Truck)
getCarCost - gets the cost of the car based on the car type per hour.
App:
generateRandNumber - randomly generated UUID confirmation number for the renter.
hoursUsed - returns the hours the car would be used. 
checkHour - Asks for the time the renter wants the car, and if the renter exceeds the car usage time of 8 hours, he has to pay more 10% in the Payment.
getCarCost - Scans the text file, converts the car model into lowercase, and splits them, so that their prices could be calculated. 
totalCost - Calculates the final cost of the car including the hours used.
receipt - Creates a final receipt of the car for the user, and generates a text file including the username, car type, car cost, hours booked, total cost, and the confirmation number.  

TextFile:
CarDetails - Stores the details of the car model, and their hourly price.
customerReceipt - Created after execution of the app. Once done, it showcases the renter’s username, car type chosen, hours booked, and their specified UUID number. 
Database:
DBconnection - Database to store the renter details.

Table of components:
Required Components
Corresponding Classes
Corresponding methods
Corresponding SQL Tables
Reading /Writing from text files
App, Payment
App - getCarCost
Payment - Main method reading files from App and the CarDetails.txt


Relational Database and SQL
DBconnection




Use of Multiple tables and Classes
App, Cars, Renter, Payment.
App - generateRandNumber,
hoursUsed, checkHours, getCarCost,totalCost, receipt.
Cars - getCarType, getCarCost.
Renter - getName, getUsername.
Payment - Main Method.


Main Console to run the app
Payment






Implementation Results:
	The CyRent is an app made for the Iowa State Students to rent cars with a variety of their types. We got SUV, Sedan, Hatchback, and even the Trucks. They all come with different prices on an hourly rate. SUV is for $20.70/hr, hatchbacks are for $12.30/hr, Sedans are for $14.75/hr, and Trucks for $19.00/hr. Then comes a condition for each car that if the renter wants to use the car for more than 8 hours, then they have to pay 10% extra over the actual cost. 
    How does the app work? - There’s a primary method in the Payment class, which after running, the user has to input the details like their name, the car type they would prefer, the hours they want to book it for. After putting all these details, the prompter starts reading the file from the CarDetails.txt file. Once they match the details of the car the user wants, they find out the pricing of it, and then it goes to the app class where calculations are done related to the pricing of the vehicle, then the command checks whether the requirement is for 8 hours or less. If less, then it goes through a general cost, if not then, a 10% charge of the actual price is added to the actual price forming the total cost of the whole booking. Once this is done, the app creates a receipt which could be used as a proof to collect the car from the office desk with the help of reservation details and the specific confirmation number generated for different customers.
    What impact does it bring in real life? - In Ames, we have different rental car booking apps like ZipCar, Enterprise, Hertz, or Turo. However, if the university creates its car rental branch, then it would be a real boon for the Cyclone family. Students will consider it as a favorable option, and at the same time, the rates we have offered are standardly incomparable to the other rental car booking apps. This app we created could be a real impact, and could generate revenue, and also help branding “Cy” would make it more authentic. As a student, every student would prefer using an app created by the university, for the university, and there would be one more reason for students to be a part of ISU, as no other university has this kind of app designated just for their students.



Discussion:
The group project gave us an excellent opportunity to evaluate our knowledge for the MIS307 class. It was like a quick summary of what we grasped from the class — starting from the basic java files, to implementing them with different java classes, to reading text files, to storing data in the database. Overall, the group project gave us an excellent opportunity to understand how to deal with object-oriented programming. Being an essential and most required language, Java, it was vital for us to know how we could have a good command over the implementation of different classes, combining them, and working them together to create an application smoothly working. One of the most important things one could learn from this project was to understand how a professional software development project works in a team. Since the beginning of the project, each person of our team divided their particular responsibility. The whole project seemed to be designed in such a way that all 3 members of our group understood our role in our project, and we tend to complete the project before the lead time. 
    In terms of reaching the goals of our project, we evaluated our project in such a way that we would meet all the 3 out of 4 critical requirements. We built the java classes, created a text file to store the data about the car types, and their prices, we had a database which was used to store the renter’s information, and then later once the user will be done entering their requirements for the particular car type, the hours they want to book it for, an automatic receipt was created for the customer, which in real life would be emailed to the renter, and this will have a specific confirmation number. This confirmation number will be used to get the car keys from the office desk. According to the requirements, we met all our goals, but there could be more changes which could be made to make this app more dynamic.
 After a meeting with the team about what improvement could be made in the app, we came up with the following changes:
If we use it as an online database, the business could grow more. We could have more follow-ups from each member of the team, and one could work remotely to search data related to the following renters, get more specific car models inside the car types by specifying the availability of each car type model, and company. 

If we would have used a GUI, Graphic User Interface, instead of the java console, then the UI would have been looking more like an app, rather than a java console. Every day we see new java apps coming out, but what stands out is their usability towards their customers. Adding buttons, a standalone app window, drop down box for the car types, and a QR code scanner instead of a UUID random code generator, then things could have gone faster than what we created. 

We started with a plan of having a kiosk system to have a system human free. However, then because of lack of availability of team members, we came to a much optimal solution where we would have an office desk where customers could collect their particular rented car keys, and then they will return the key to the counter again after they are done with their registered rented hours. If there would have been a kiosk system, then it would have been much quicker for the customers, and more work fast checkout system. 
